# **Dice endgames**
### Description
Dice endgames is a gambling and logical game with perfect information, at the same time being a variety of both variants of chess and checkers-like games, and dices. In this game, the arrangement of chess pieces depends on the values on the sides of the dice. It was conceived as teaching and training how to solve endgames, problems or random arrangements, such as Fischer's chess, in various board games of logic.
### Rules
By throwing three dice (using a game glass), the name of the piece is determined, and the coordinates of that piece on the board — according to the notation for chess, draughts and makruk, qipu for xiangqi and janggi, kifu for shogi and also kifu for go. It can be used for any variants of chess, checkers, and similar board games where the boards have coordinates. There is also a game with an additional dice, the throw of which sets the number of pieces or pairs of pieces on the game board. The initial rolls are for major pieces, such as kings in chess and makruk, generals in xiangqi and janggi, or royal generals in shogi; since there are none in checkers, you can stipulate dames, or get by with those checkers that fall on the last diagonal of the checkerboard. In the event that the arrangement obtained after the next throw violates the rules of this game, a reroll is carried out. Accordingly, after the placement of the pieces, the game with incomplete information is transformed into a game with complete information.
### Software
A program was released to generate pseudo-random arrangements for various operating systems, including Linux, FreeBSD, MacOSX, Windows, ReactOS, OS/2, DOS. After placing the figures, it forms the Forsyth–Edwards Notation with Hodges' modifications for the resulting arrangement. Supports creation of positions and display of notations for chess, makruk, xiangqi, shogi and international draughts. The calculation of 8-piece endgames to supplement the endgame tablebase is ongoing, and the 1000-move checkmate threshold will probably be overcome. Even during an interview with Google in 2010, Kasparov suggested that the limit would be 8 figures. And since the starting position in chess is a 32-piece arrangement, he argued that there was no chance that chess could be solved with a computer. This information determined the limit in the program for 4 pairs of figures.
### License
**Free Software, Public Domain!**
